Well, let's look at Jude 9 in context.
Open to the book of Jude.
We'll reverse one first of all.
It says,
But why do we say that it was a humble introduction?
Well, you notice he said,
slave of Jesus and brother of James.
Well, who was James?
Well, he was a half-brother of Jesus.
So that means that Jude also was a half-brother of Jesus,
but he never alluded to that as introduction.
He simply said, a slave of Christ.
Now, the Bible doesn't say, but very likely,
both James and Jude felt a measure of regret
that they had not become a disciple of Jesus
while he was on earth.
So much so to the point that Jesus, when he was dying,
he left their mother's care in their cousin,
John's hands, rather than to either one of them.
But once they came to their senses spiritually,
they were wholly devoted for the teachings of Jesus
and his father.
And Jude, the book of Jude as an example,
a short letter but powerful.
Now, if you look at verse three,
Jude had intended to write about the salvation
that all Christians hold in common.
But because of circumstances in the congregation at the time,
he changed his mind, or did you hope he changed it for him?
And so now, the book of Jude becomes a local needs part.
And what was the need in the congregations at time?
Well, glance down through some of the verses.
In verse four,
certain men have slipped into the congregation.
He says they ungodly with brazen conduct.
At 12 and 13, rocks below the water, waterless clouds,
fruitless trees having died twice,
waves casting up the foam of shame, stars with no set course.
Look at 16.
These men are murmurs, complainers following their own desires,
making grandiose boasts while they're flattering others
for their own benefit.
Excuse me.
So he's really describing the traits of apostates today, isn't he?
But what is verse nine all about?
Can we read it again in this entirety?
It says, when Michael, the archangel,
had a difference with the devil,
and was disputing about Moses' body,
he did not dare to bring judgment against him in abusive terms,
but said, made Jehovah rebuke you.
Well, Michael's name,
it's the name of Jesus when he was heaven,
both before and after, his sojourn to the earth.
Well, when did this dispute with the devil over Moses' body occur?
Well, it certainly wasn't when Jude was writing this in 65.
He's just using this as an example from the past
of one who did not assume authority that did not belong to him.
I'll find you to run me 34-6 with me.
Now, it's evidently the devil wanted Moses' body
to ensnare the Israelites into some kind of relic worship.
And so he wanted Moses' body.
Verse six of Deuteronomy 34, it says of Moses being buried.
It says he buried him in the valley in the land of Moab,
opposite Bethpure,
and nobody knows where his grave is down to this day.
February 15th, 2015, watchtower explained that Michael had no qualms
about arguing this case legally with Satan,
because really that's what it was.
It was a matter of Satan didn't have the right to Moses' body.
So like a skillful trial lawyer, Michael disputed,
it says with him in the Bible, disputed or we could say argued the case.
But then it came time for a decision about what to do with Satan.
He left that for the supreme judge.
So Jude was given a lesson to those in the congregations
that he said were despising authority.
Speaking abusively of glorious ones,
it was a lesson for them.
Michael said a good example of not overstepping authority.
And that becomes an equally good lesson for us today
to know the limits of our authority and responsibility.
And unlike those rebellious ones in Jude's day,
we don't want to be rebellious.
Instead, we want to follow the lead of the faithful slave,
be content to do that.
The slave that Michael, our Lord Christ Jesus is using today.
Well, in deferring to Jehovah's decision,
was Jesus in any way showing weakness?
No, it was just respect for authority.
How do we know?
Well, after the birth of the Messianic Kingdom,
there was no waiting for Jehovah in that case
to bring Satan to terms, rebuke him.
Because Jehovah had authorized Jesus, Michael,
had authorized him to war with the devil and his demons
to throw him out of the heavens and Jesus did so with gusto.
Well, here's a question.
Are apostates today as reprehensible
as those ones that Jude mentioned in his short letter?
Are they devious?
Or maybe they're sincerely trying to help poor, misguided witnesses?
No. They're devious.
Have you noticed that apostates generally
do not try to reason from the scriptures?
Why not?
Because they know we know the scriptures
and we would see through the twisting.
Instead, they pick at the organization.
They twist truth.
They use lies, half-truths to try to grab a mind.
Well, are they deceitful?
Absolutely.
Here's an example.
I worked in writing correspondence many years ago,
and they get letters from everyone that has our address.
And sometimes those letters are from ones
who have been fed apostate information.
And one example I came through in my stack of letters,
it was a sincere older lady, it seemed,
by the look of the scroll of her handwriting.
It was probably an older woman.
And she sent in a photocopy from a page
of a 1910 watchtower.
And her question,
is why did your Mr. Russell say
that you only need to read his book studies in the scriptures
instead of the Bible?
Well, I read over the photocopy,
and it looks like that's exactly what it said.
But then I got original the 1910 magazine and compared,
and very quickly you could discern the deceit,
the trickery that was involved.
When photocopying that page,
they put a piece of white paper over the bottom part of the page
so that you didn't see the bottom of the first column.
And they were very tricky.
They placed it exactly on a line
where it sounded like when reading down the first column
that the sentence completed on the second column.
But what was in the first part of that column
that they had made invisible with the paper?
It was a subheading.
Scripture studies not a substitute for the Bible.
And here's what it said in that text
that was disappeared with their photocopying.
It says this is not therefore putting Scripture studies
as a substitute for the Bible.
Because so far a substituting for the Bible,
the studies on the contrary continually refer to the Bible.
And everyone has any doubt as to a reference
or if one's recollection should lapse in any degree,
one should refresh his memory
and in fact should see that his every thought
is in harmony with the Bible,
not merely in accord with Scripture studies,
but in accord with the Bible.
Now why would someone do that?
They doctored the page
because of deceit and trickery.
There was no sincere effort to help that dear old lady
who received a copy.
Well the book of Jude is applicable for our view of those today
who are like evil rocks hidden below the water.
Well let's end our discussion with a flourish
of positive reinforcement from the pin of Jude.
In Jude verses 24 and 25.
It says now to the one who is able to guard you from stumbling
and to make you stand unblemished in the sight of his glory
with great joy,
to the only God our Savior
through Jesus Christ our Lord,
the glory, majesty, might, and authority
for all past eternity
and now and into all eternity, amen.